Migrate offline cookbook (#3971)
GoogleChrome/web.dev: src/site/content/en/reliable/offline-cookbook/index.md

```js
self.addEventListener('install', function (event) {
  event.waitUntil(
    caches.open('mysite-static-v3').then(function (cache) {
      return cache.addAll([
        '/css/whatever-v3.css',
        '/css/imgs/sprites-v6.png',
        '/css/fonts/whatever-v8.woff',
        '/js/all-min-v4.js',
        // etc.
      ]);
    }),
  );
});
```

`event.waitUntil` takes a promise to define the length and success of the install. If the promise
rejects, the installation is considered a failure and this Service Worker will be abandoned (if an
older version is running, it'll be left intact). `caches.open` and `cache.addAll` return promises.
If any of the resources fail to fetch, the `cache.addAll` call rejects.

On [trained-to-thrill][ttt] I use this to
[cache static assets](https://github.com/jakearchibald/trained-to-thrill/blob/3291dd40923346e3cc9c83ae527004d502e0464f/www/static/js-unmin/sw/index.js#L3).

### On install—not as a dependency {: #on-install-not }

<figure class="w-figure">
  <img class="w-screenshot" alt="" src="cm-on-install-not.png">
</figure>

Similar to above, but won't delay install completing and won't cause installation to fail if caching
fails.

> **Ideal for:** Bigger resources that aren't needed straight away, such as assets for later levels of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Ideal for:** bigger resources that aren't needed straight away, such as assets for later levels of
```

Reviewer: The explanation is rather esoteric. I don't expect anyone to absorb the reasons for this. In case you're curious, here it is.

The standard in English it to use lower case after a colon. (Notes are an exception.) There's a second rule that applies in this case, the run-in heading ("Ideal for") and the subsequent clause function together in a grammatically valid way. In other words if I added a subject you would have a valid English sentence: "This is ideal for...". This is a valid exception to the rule (there aren't many) to always use complete sentences.

Author: Wow, thanks for the explanation!

a game.

```js
self.addEventListener('install', function (event) {
  event.waitUntil(
    caches.open('mygame-core-v1').then(function (cache) {
      cache
        .addAll
        // levels 11–20
        ();
      return cache
        .addAll
        // core assets and levels 1–10
        ();
    }),
  );
});
```

The above example does not pass the `cache.addAll` promise for levels 11–20 back to
`event.waitUntil`, so even if it fails, the game will still be available offline. Of course, you'll
have to cater for the possible absence of those levels and reattempt caching them if they're
missing.

The Service Worker may be killed while levels 11–20 download since it's finished handling events,
meaning they won't be cached. In future the
[Web Periodic Background Synchronization API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Periodic_Background_Synchronization_API)
will handle cases like this, and larger downloads such as movies. That API is currently only
supported on Chromium forks.

### On activate {: #on-activate }

<figure class="w-figure">
  <img class="w-screenshot" alt="" src="cm-on-activate.png">
</figure>

> **Ideal for:** Clean-up and migration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Ideal for:** clean-up and migration.
```

time to handle schema migrations in IndexedDB and also delete unused caches.

```js
self.addEventListener('activate', function (event) {
  event.waitUntil(
    caches.keys().then(function (cacheNames) {
      return Promise.all(
        cacheNames
          .filter(function (cacheName) {
            // Return true if you want to remove this cache,
            // but remember that caches are shared across
            // the whole origin
          })
          .map(function (cacheName) {
            return caches.delete(cacheName);
          }),
      );
    }),
  );
});
```

During activation, other events such as `fetch` are put into a queue, so a long activation could
potentially block page loads. Keep your activation as lean as possible, only use it for things you
_couldn't_ do while the old version was active.

On [trained-to-thrill][ttt] I use this to
[remove old caches](https://github.com/jakearchibald/trained-to-thrill/blob/3291dd40923346e3cc9c83ae527004d502e0464f/www/static/js-unmin/sw/index.js#L17).

### On user interaction {: #on-user-interaction }

<figure class="w-figure">
  <img class="w-screenshot" alt="" src="cm-on-user-interaction.png">
</figure>

> **Ideal for:** When the whole site can't be taken offline, and you chose to allow the user to select

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Ideal for:** when the whole site can't be taken offline, and you chose to allow the user to select
```

the content they want available offline. E.g. a video on something like YouTube, an article on
Wikipedia, a particular gallery on Flickr.

Give the user a "Read later" or "Save for offline" button. When it's clicked, fetch what you need
from the network and pop it in the cache.

```js
document.querySelector('.cache-article').addEventListener('click', function (event) {
  event.preventDefault();

  var id = this.dataset.articleId;
  caches.open('mysite-article-' + id).then(function (cache) {
    fetch('/get-article-urls?id=' + id)
      .then(function (response) {
        // /get-article-urls returns a JSON-encoded array of
        // resource URLs that a given article depends on
        return response.json();
      })
      .then(function (urls) {
        cache.addAll(urls);
      });
  });
});
```

The [caches API][caches_api] is available from pages as well as service workers, meaning you don't
need to involve the service worker to add things to the cache.

### On network response {: #on-network-response }

<figure class="w-figure">
  <img class="w-screenshot" alt="" src="cm-on-network-response.png">
</figure>

> **Ideal for:** Frequently updating resources such as a user's inbox, or article contents. Also

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Ideal for:** frequently updating resources such as a user's inbox, or article contents. Also
```

candidate. Make sure you get rid of items in the cache you don't need any more.

```js
self.addEventListener('fetch', function (event) {
  event.respondWith(
    caches.open('mysite-dynamic').then(function (cache) {
      return cache.match(event.request).then(function (response) {
        return (
          response ||
          fetch(event.request).then(function (response) {
            cache.put(event.request, response.clone());
            return response;
          })
        );
      });
    }),
  );
});
```

To allow for efficient memory usage, you can only read a response/request's body once. In the code
above, [`.clone()`](https://fetch.spec.whatwg.org/#dom-request-clone) is used to create additional
copies that can be read separately.

On [trained-to-thrill][ttt] I use this to
[cache Flickr images](https://github.com/jakearchibald/trained-to-thrill/blob/3291dd40923346e3cc9c83ae527004d502e0464f/www/static/js-unmin/sw/index.js#L109).

### Stale-while-revalidate {: #stale-while-revalidate }

<figure class="w-figure">
  <img class="w-screenshot" alt="" src="cm-stale-while-revalidate.png">
</figure>

> **Ideal for:** Frequently updating resources where having the very latest version is non-essential.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Ideal for:** frequently updating resources where having the very latest version is non-essential.
```

If there's a cached version available, use it, but fetch an update for next time.

```js
self.addEventListener('fetch', function (event) {
  event.respondWith(
    caches.open('mysite-dynamic').then(function (cache) {
      return cache.match(event.request).then(function (response) {
        var fetchPromise = fetch(event.request).then(function (networkResponse) {
          cache.put(event.request, networkResponse.clone());
          return networkResponse;
        });
        return response || fetchPromise;
      });
    }),
  );
});
```

This is very similar to HTTP's [stale-while-revalidate](https://www.mnot.net/blog/2007/12/12/stale).

### On push message {: #on-push-message }

<figure class="w-figure">
  <img class="w-screenshot" alt="" src="cm-on-push.png">
</figure>

The [Push API](/web/fundamentals/push-notifications) is another feature built on top of
Service Worker. This allows the Service Worker to be awoken in response to a message from the OS's
messaging service. This happens even when the user doesn't have a tab open to your site, only the
Service Worker is woken up. You request permission to do this from a page and the user will be
prompted.

> **Ideal for:** Content relating to a notification, such as a chat message, a breaking news story, or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Ideal for:** content relating to a notification, such as a chat message, a breaking news story, or
```

an email. Also infrequently changing content that benefits from immediate sync, such as a todo list
update or a calendar alteration.

{% YouTube '0i7YdSEQI1w' %}

The common final outcome is a notification which, when tapped, opens/focuses a relevant page, but
updating caches before this happens is _extremely_ important. The user is obviously online at the
time of receiving the push message, but they may not be when they finally interact with the
notification, so making this content available offline is important. The Twitter native app, which

> is for the most part an excellent example of offline-first, gets this a bit wrong.

Author: We shouldn't be criticising anyone publicly. Removing.

> notification, so making this content available offline is important. The Twitter native app, which
> is for the most part an excellent example of offline-first, gets this a bit wrong.

Author: ```suggestion
notification, so making this content available offline is important.
```

> 
> Without a connection, Twitter fails to provide the content relating to the push message. Tapping it

Author: ```suggestion
```

            cache.put('/inbox.json', response.clone());
            return response.json();
          });
        })
        .then(function (emails) {
          registration.showNotification('New email', {
            body: 'From ' + emails[0].from.name,
            tag: 'new-email',
          });
        }),
    );
  }
});

self.addEventListener('notificationclick', function (event) {
  if (event.notification.tag == 'new-email') {
    // Assume that all of the resources needed to render
    // /inbox/ have previously been cached, e.g. as part
    // of the install handler.
    new WindowClient('/inbox/');
  }
});
```

### On background-sync {: #on-background-sync }

<figure class="w-figure">
  <img class="w-screenshot" alt="" src="cm-on-bg-sync.png">
</figure>

[Background sync](/web/updates/2015/12/background-sync) is another feature built on top of
Service Worker. It allows you to request background data synchronization as a one-off, or on an
(extremely heuristic) interval. This happens even when the user doesn't have a tab open to your
site, only the Service Worker is woken up. You request permission to do this from a page and the user
will be prompted.

> **Ideal for:** Non-urgent updates, especially those that happen so regularly that a push message per

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Ideal for:** non-urgent updates, especially those that happen so regularly that a push message per
```

```js
// From a page:
navigator.storage.persist()
.then(function(persisted) {
  if (persisted) {
    // Hurrah, your data is here to stay!
  } else {
   // So sad, your data may get chucked. Sorry.
});
```

Of course, the user has to grant permission.  For this, use the Permissions API.

Making the user part of this flow is important, as we
can now expect them to be in control of deletion. If their device comes under storage pressure, and
clearing non-essential data doesn't solve it, the user gets to judge on which items to keep and
remove.

For this to work, it requires operating systems to treat "durable" origins as equivalent to native
apps in their breakdowns of storage usage, rather than reporting the browser as a single item.

## Serving Suggestions—responding to requests {: #serving-suggestions }

It doesn't matter how much caching you do, the Service Worker won't use the cache unless you tell it
when and how. Here are a few patterns for handling requests:

### Cache only {: #cache-only }

<figure class="w-figure">
  <img class="w-screenshot" alt="" src="ss-cache-only.png">
</figure>

> **Ideal for:** Anything you'd consider static to a particular "version" of your site. You should

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Ideal for:** anything you'd consider static to a particular "version" of your site. You should
```

have cached these in the install event, so you can depend on them being there.

```js
self.addEventListener('fetch', function (event) {
  // If a match isn't found in the cache, the response
  // will look like a connection error
  event.respondWith(caches.match(event.request));
});
```

…although you don't often need to handle this case specifically,
[Cache, falling back to network](#cache-falling-back-to-network) covers it.

### Network only {: #network-only }

<figure class="w-figure">
  <img class="w-screenshot" alt="" src="ss-network-only.png">
</figure>

> **Ideal for:** Things that have no offline equivalent, such as analytics pings, non-GET requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Ideal for:** things that have no offline equivalent, such as analytics pings, non-GET requests.
```

```js
self.addEventListener('fetch', function (event) {
  event.respondWith(fetch(event.request));
  // or simply don't call event.respondWith, which

>   // will result in default browser behaviour

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  // will result in default browser behavior
```

Reviewer: Web.dev uses American spelling (as does Google).

});
```

…although you don't often need to handle this case specifically,
[Cache, falling back to network](#cache-falling-back-to-network) covers it.

### Cache, falling back to network {: #cache-falling-back-to-network }

<figure class="w-figure">
  <img class="w-screenshot" alt="" src="ss-falling-back-to-network.png">
</figure>

> **Ideal for:** Building offline-first. In such cases, this is how you'll handle the majority of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Ideal for:** building offline-first. In such cases, this is how you'll handle the majority of
```

requests. Other patterns will be exceptions based on the incoming request.

```js
self.addEventListener('fetch', function (event) {
  event.respondWith(
    caches.match(event.request).then(function (response) {
      return response || fetch(event.request);
    }),
  );
});
```

This gives you the "Cache only" behaviour for things in the cache and the "Network only" behaviour
for anything not-cached (which includes all non-GET requests, as they cannot be cached).

### Cache and network race {: #cache-and-network-race }

<figure class="w-figure">

>   <img class="w-screenshot" alt="" src="ss-cache-and-network-race.png">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <img src="./ss-cache-and-network-race.png" alt="Cache and network race.">
  <figcaption class="w-figcaption">Cache and network race.</figcaption>
```

</figure>

> **Ideal for:** Small assets where you're chasing performance on devices with slow disk access.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Ideal for:** small assets where you're chasing performance on devices with slow disk access.
```

With some combinations of older hard drives, virus scanners, and faster internet connections,
getting resources from the network can be quicker than going to disk. However, going to the network
when the user has the content on their device can be a waste of data, so bear that in mind.

```js
// Promise.race is no good to us because it rejects if
// a promise rejects before fulfilling. Let's make a proper
// race function:
function promiseAny(promises) {
  return new Promise((resolve, reject) => {
    // make sure promises are all promises
    promises = promises.map((p) => Promise.resolve(p));
    // resolve this promise as soon as one resolves
    promises.forEach((p) => p.then(resolve));
    // reject if all promises reject
    promises.reduce((a, b) => a.catch(() => b)).catch(() => reject(Error('All failed')));
  });
}

self.addEventListener('fetch', function (event) {
  event.respondWith(promiseAny([caches.match(event.request), fetch(event.request)]));
});
```

### Network falling back to cache {: #network-falling-back-to-cache }

<figure class="w-figure">

>   <img class="w-screenshot" alt="" src="ss-network-falling-back-to-cache.png">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <img src="./ss-network-falling-back-to-cache.png" alt="Network falling back to cache.">
  <figcaption class="w-figcaption">Network falling back to cache.</figcaption>
```

</figure>

> **Ideal for:** A quick-fix for resources that update frequently, outside of the "version" of the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Ideal for:** a quick-fix for resources that update frequently, outside of the "version" of the
```

> site. E.g. articles, avatars, social media timelines, game leader boards.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
site. E.g. articles, avatars, social media timelines, and game leader boards.
```

This means you give online users the most up-to-date content, but offline users get an older cached

> version. If the network request succeeds you'll most-likely want to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
version. If the network request succeeds you'll most likely want to
```

[update the cache entry](#on-network-response).

However, this method has flaws. If the user has an intermittent or slow connection they'll have to
wait for the network to fail before they get the perfectly acceptable content already on their
device. This can take an extremely long time and is a frustrating user experience. See the next
pattern, [Cache then network](#cache-then-network), for a better solution.

```js
self.addEventListener('fetch', function (event) {
  event.respondWith(
    fetch(event.request).catch(function () {
      return caches.match(event.request);
    }),
  );
});
```

### Cache then network {: #cache-then-network }

<figure class="w-figure">

>   <img class="w-screenshot" alt="" src="ss-cache-then-network.png">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <img src="./ss-cache-then-network.png" alt="Cache then network.">
  <figcaption class="w-figcaption">Cache then network.</figcaption>
```

</figure>

> **Ideal for:** Content that updates frequently. E.g. articles, social media timelines, game

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Ideal for:** content that updates frequently. E.g. articles, social media timelines, and game.
```

leaderboards.

> This requires the page to make two requests, one to the cache, one to the network. The idea is to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This requires the page to make two requests, one to the cache, and one to the network. The idea is to
```

user may be reading or interacting with.

Twitter adds the new content above the old content and adjusts the scroll position so the user is
uninterrupted. This is possible because Twitter mostly retains a mostly-linear order to content. I
copied this pattern for [trained-to-thrill][ttt] to get content on screen as fast as possible, while
displaying up-to-date content as soon as it arrives.

**Code in the page:**

```js
var networkDataReceived = false;

startSpinner();

// fetch fresh data
var networkUpdate = fetch('/data.json')
  .then(function (response) {
    return response.json();
  })
  .then(function (data) {
    networkDataReceived = true;
    updatePage(data);
  });

// fetch cached data
caches
  .match('/data.json')
  .then(function (response) {
    if (!response) throw Error('No data');
    return response.json();
  })
  .then(function (data) {
    // don't overwrite newer network data
    if (!networkDataReceived) {
      updatePage(data);
    }
  })
  .catch(function () {
    // we didn't get cached data, the network is our last hope:
    return networkUpdate;
  })
  .catch(showErrorMessage)
  .then(stopSpinner);
```

**Code in the Service Worker:**

> We always go to the network and update a cache as we go.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should always go to the network and update a cache as you go.
```

```js
self.addEventListener('fetch', function (event) {
  event.respondWith(
    caches.open('mysite-dynamic').then(function (cache) {
      return fetch(event.request).then(function (response) {
        cache.put(event.request, response.clone());
        return response;
      });
    }),
  );
});
```

> In [trained-to-thrill][ttt] I worked around this by using

Reviewer: We need to update this somehow. XHR is about to go away. Even if Jake doesn't have time to take it out of Trained to Thrill, we need to call this out in some way.

"Back when I created trained to thrill, I worked around this by...

But XHR is going away. A contemporary solution using fetch would be..."

Author: This is not correct. XHR is here to stay. It may not be the primary choice today, but the API is by no means deprecated or anything.

Author: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/XMLHttpRequest

[XHR instead of fetch](https://github.com/jakearchibald/trained-to-thrill/blob/3291dd40923346e3cc9c83ae527004d502e0464f/www/static/js-unmin/utils.js#L3),
and abusing the Accept header to tell the Service Worker where to get the result from
([page code](https://github.com/jakearchibald/trained-to-thrill/blob/3291dd40923346e3cc9c83ae527004d502e0464f/www/static/js-unmin/index.js#L70),
[Service Worker code](https://github.com/jakearchibald/trained-to-thrill/blob/3291dd40923346e3cc9c83ae527004d502e0464f/www/static/js-unmin/sw/index.js#L61)).

### Generic fallback {: #generic-fallback }

<figure class="w-figure">

>   <img class="w-screenshot" alt="" src="ss-generic-fallback.png">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <img src="./ss-generic-fallback.png" alt="Generic fallback.">
  <figcaption class="w-figcaption">Generic fallback.</figcaption>
```

</figure>

If you fail to serve something from the cache and/or network you may want to provide a generic
fallback.

> **Ideal for:** Secondary imagery such as avatars, failed POST requests, "Unavailable while offline"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Ideal for:** secondary imagery such as avatars, failed POST requests, and an "Unavailable while offline".
```

page.

```js
self.addEventListener('fetch', function (event) {
  event.respondWith(
    // Try the cache
    caches
      .match(event.request)
      .then(function (response) {
        // Fall back to network
        return response || fetch(event.request);
      })
      .catch(function () {
        // If both fail, show a generic fallback:
        return caches.match('/offline.html');
        // However, in reality you'd have many different
        // fallbacks, depending on URL and headers.
        // Eg, a fallback silhouette image for avatars.
      }),
  );
});
```

The item you fallback to is likely to be an [install dependency](#on-install-as-dependency).

> If your page is posting an email, your Service Worker may fall back to storing the email in an IDB

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your page is posting an email, your service worker may fall back to storing the email in an IndexedDB
```

> 'outbox' and respond letting the page know that the send failed but the data was successfully

Reviewer: ```suggestion
'outbox' and respond by letting the page know that the send failed but the data was successfully
```

retained.

> ### Service Worker-side templating {: #Service Worker-side-templating }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Service worker-side templating {: #Service Worker-side-templating }
```

<figure class="w-figure">

>   <img class="w-screenshot" alt="" src="ss-sw-side-templating.png">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <img src="./ss-sw-side-templating.png" alt="ServiceWorker-side templating.">
  <figcaption class="w-figcaption">ServiceWorker-side templating.</figcaption>
```

</figure>

> **Ideal for:** Pages that cannot have their server response cached.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Ideal for:** pages that cannot have their server response cached.
```

[Rendering pages on the server makes things fast](https://jakearchibald.com/2013/progressive-enhancement-is-faster/),
but that can mean including state data that may not make sense in a cache, e.g. "Logged in as…". If

> your page is controlled by a Service Worker, you may instead choose to request JSON data along with a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
your page is controlled by a service worker, you may instead choose to request JSON data along with a
```

template, and render that instead.

```js
importScripts('templating-engine.js');

self.addEventListener('fetch', function (event) {
  var requestURL = new URL(event.request.url);

  event.respondWith(
    Promise.all([
      caches.match('/article-template.html').then(function (response) {
        return response.text();
      }),
      caches.match(requestURL.path + '.json').then(function (response) {
        return response.json();
      }),
    ]).then(function (responses) {
      var template = responses[0];
      var data = responses[1];

      return new Response(renderTemplate(template, data), {
        headers: {
          'Content-Type': 'text/html',
        },
      });
    }),
  );
});
```

## Putting it together

> You don't have to pick one of these methods, you'll likely use many of them depending on request

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You aren't limited to one of these methods. In fact, you'll likely use many of them depending on request
```

URL. For example, [trained-to-thrill][ttt] uses:

> - [Cache on install](#on-install-as-dependency), for the static UI and behaviour

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [cache on install](#on-install-as-dependency), for the static UI and behavior
```

> - [Cache on network response](#on-network-response), for the Flickr images and data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [cache on network response](#on-network-response), for the Flickr images and data
```

> - [Fetch from cache, falling back to network](#cache-falling-back-to-network), for most requests

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [fetch from cache, falling back to network](#cache-falling-back-to-network), for most requests
```

> - [Fetch from cache, then network](#cache-then-network), for the Flickr search results

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [fetch from cache, then network](#cache-then-network), for the Flickr search results
```

<figure class="w-figure">
  <img src="./cm-on-push.png" alt="On push message.">
  <figcaption class="w-figcaption">On push message.</figcaption>
</figure>

The [Push API](/web/fundamentals/push-notifications) is another feature built on top of
Service Worker. This allows the Service Worker to be awoken in response to a message from the OS's
messaging service. This happens even when the user doesn't have a tab open to your site. Only the
Service Worker is woken up. You request permission to do this from a page and the user will be
prompted.

**Ideal for:** content relating to a notification, such as a chat message, a breaking news story, or
an email. Also infrequently changing content that benefits from immediate sync, such as a todo list
update or a calendar alteration.

{% YouTube '0i7YdSEQI1w' %}

The common final outcome is a notification which, when tapped, opens/focuses a relevant page, but
for which updating caches before this happens is _extremely_ important. The user is obviously online at the
time of receiving the push message, but they may not be when they finally interact with the
notification, so making this content available offline is important.

> tapped. Don't do this!
> 

Author: ```suggestion
```
